Update SRS with more details (#41)
pyphoenix/pyphoenix-project: docs/dev/srs.md

### Product scope

flopy4 will be a software product to pre- and post-process MODFLOW-based model input and output.
Pre-processing will be limited to preparing model input datasets.

> Post-processing will be limited to reading model output into internal data formats that can be used by the product.

Reviewer: The pre-processing includes support capabilities like mesh generation, GIS intersections and some other utilities.  The post-processing includes plotting and some analysis capabilities.  We might need to think how best to phrase this here.  Perhaps "preparing model input datasets" is sufficient, but I feel like Flopy does more than that.

Author: I have changed it to the following. What do you think?

> flopy4 will be a software product to pre- and post-process MODFLOW-based model input and output.
> Pre-processing will be limited to preparing model input datasets, mesh generation, and model input manipulation capabilities.
> Post-processing will be limited to reading model output into internal data formats that can be used by the product, plotting utilities, and rudimentary analysis capabilities.
> For specific use cases, model input and output data will be processed by the product into formats that can be analyzed in other libraries.

For specific use cases, model input and output data will be processed by the product into formats that can be analyzed in other libraries.

The product will be able to run MODFLOW simulations.

The product can load existing model input datasets that were not necessarily created by the product, but conform to MODFLOW input and output specifications.

flopy4 will replace the MODFLOW 6 targeted capabilities of the current FloPy 3 library.

flopy4 will also replace the following capabilities of FloPy 3:

> - PEST (?)

Reviewer: This one can go.  While there are some pest utilities in flopy, they are not used.

The other key audience is the team of MODFLOW software developers.

### Intended use

The product should be available on the major operating systems (Windows, Linux, MacOS) and hardware ranging from laptops to HPC systems.
The product will be used through Python scripts and Jupyter notebooks.

The product can be relied upon as a core component by other libraries and tools that offer more advanced, domain specific, or application specific functionality.

### Use cases

- A hydrologist needs to determine an optimal pumping rate for a well field...

- A student wants to simulate salt water intrusion in a coastal aquifer and visualize results...

- A professor is teaching a groundwater modeling class...

- A hydrologic institute maintains their own suite of advanced pre- and post-processing utilities that can rely on flopy4 as a component for its core capabilities...

- A MODFLOW developer is debugging an issue in the UZF package and wants to create a complicated test with many cells and stress periods...

- A MODFLOW developer is setting up a worked example to demonstrate how to use a new feature...

## System requirements and functional requirements

### System requirements

> flopy4 must be able to run within a python environment supporting versions that comply with scientific-python.org guidelines: <https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/>. This is due to its dependency on the Numpy and XArray libraries, and flopy4 should not be conflicting with user installed libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
flopy4 must be able to run within a python environment supporting versions that comply with scientific-python.org guidelines: <https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/>. This is due to its dependency on the Numpy, Matplotlib, and XArray libraries, and flopy4 should not be conflicting with user installed libraries.
```

The product must be able to run on the following operating systems: Windows, Linux, MacOS.

The product must be distributed via the Python Package Index (PyPI) and be installable via pip. Additionally, the product must be installable via conda-forge.

### Functional requirements

flopy4 must be able to read and write MODFLOW 6 input files and read MODFLOW 6 output files.

flopy4 must be able to run MODFLOW 6 simulations.

> flopy4 must work with multiple versions of MODFLOW 6, based on the DFN files. And it can support all packages that come with that version of MODFLOW 6.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
flopy4 must work with multiple versions of MODFLOW 6, based on the DFN files. And it must support all packages that come with that version of MODFLOW 6.
```

This allows simulations to be initialized in an invalid state, which may go unnoticed until runtime, producing less than informative errors from the modeling program.
The most obvious example is that grid dimensions can be changed with no warning to the user, and no attempt to coerce package array data to the new shape.
We would like automatic enforcement of invariants whenever a simulation changes.

### Maintainability

flopy4 should maintain a separation of concerns with respect to hydrology and software engineering.
The hydrologic modeler should not be concerned with the technical details of flopy4's internal data storage or parallel processing implementation,
for example, and a software engineer should be able to work on the code without detailed knowledge on complex hydrologic concepts.

## Goals

With the above in mind, we want the next version of FloPy to:

- preserve existing `flopy.mf6` functionality
- be consistent, user-friendly and pythonic
- be easy to read, debug, diagnose and test
- be memory-efficient and provide fast IO
- impose a minimal maintenance burden

## System requirements and functional requirements

### Functional requirements

> | ID     | Description | MoSCoW |

Reviewer: Define MoSCOW?

| ------ | ----------- | ------ |

> | FUNC-1 | flopy4 must be able to read and write MODFLOW 6 input files and read MODFLOW 6 output files. | M |

Reviewer: Maybe we need another one to say: The results from a model that is loaded by flopy and written back out must give the same results as the original model.

Author: I think this is valuable, although I can also imagine that Flopy wants to do some model cleanup. And maybe there is information in the model that does not exist anymore, or would never be used. In that case it would be a requirement with a technical impact, storing data that is not relevant for modflow. Do we want to enforce such a feature?

I have now written down:

> Flopy is a non-intrusive package when it comes to reading and writing the model. When writing out a model that was read, Flopy does not add any additional information. | C |

Reviewer 2: I think @langevin-usgs means when the models are run, the results are identical? Where @deltamarnix you are talking about non-functional cleanup to the input files e.g. switching deprecated variables, dropping redundant information?

Reviewer: That's what I was thinking, @wpbonelli.  We've struggled over the years with loading a model, writing it back out, and getting the same results as before (to within some level of precision).

Author: Changed to:

> Flopy is a non-intrusive package when it comes to reading, writing, and running the model. When writing out a model that was read, the simulation output must give the exact same results.

> | FUNC-2 | flopy4 must be able to run MODFLOW 6 simulations. | M |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| FUNC-2 | flopy4 must be able to run MODFLOW 6 simulations and report back on the run status. | M |
```

| FUNC-3 | flopy4 must work with multiple versions of MODFLOW 6, based on the DFN files. And it must support all packages that come with that version of MODFLOW 6. | M |
| FUNC-4 | The product lets the user define a model domain, including grid dimensions, cell sizes, and boundary conditions. | M |
| FUNC-5 | flopy4 can create grid definitions in different formats: structured (DIS), vertex (DISV), unstructured (DISU). And is open for expansion of new grid definitions. | M |
| FUNC-6 | flopy4 can create MODFLOW models that support parallel processing. It can pre-process models by splitting them up, ready for parallel computation. | M |

> | FUNC-7 | The product contains functions to plot model output and gives the user configurable or extendable options for customization. | M |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| FUNC-7 | The product contains functions to plot model input and output and gives the user configurable or extendable options for customization. | M |
```

Author: I've split them up into two requirements.

| FUNC-8 | The product can export its internal data model to different types of file formats, such as NetCDF, VTK, and geospatial standards. | M |

> | FUNC-9 | Extensive validation on the final input model can be used to ensure that the model is correct before running the simulation. | S |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| FUNC-9 | Extensive and optional validation on the final input model can be used to ensure that the model is free from detectable errors and to warn the user of potential errors before running the simulation. | S |
```

| FUNC-10| The validation can be extended by the user to include custom checks. | C |

> | FUNC-11| Instantiation of packages and models should work in an intuitive way, the user should not be stuck with specific orders of function calls. E.g., packages can be created without creating a simulation or model first. | M |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| FUNC-11| Instantiation of packages and models should work in an intuitive way that does not depend on the specific order of function calls. E.g., packages can be created without creating a simulation or model first. | M |
```

> | FUNC-12 | Functionality is in place to set up example simulation with predefined setup combinations of models and packages already configured. | C |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| FUNC-12 | Functionality is in place to set up example simulations with predefined setup combinations of models and packages already configured. | C |
```

## External interface requirements

| ID     | Description | MoSCoW |
| ------ | ----------- | ------ |
| API-1  | flopy4 should give the opportunity for external libraries to extend its capabilities by providing a plugin system. This can be useful for new plotting mechanisms, file export formats, or custom input file formats that can be converted to MODFLOW data. | C |
| API-2  | New DFN files are compatible with flopy4, and the product should be able to generate a definition of the packages that are applicable to that version of MODFLOW 6. | M |

> | API-3  | The product strives for a consistency in its public API between MODFLOW6 and older MODFLOW packages. | S |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| API-3  | The product strives for a consistency in its public API between MODFLOW 6 and older MODFLOW packages. | S |
```

| API-4  | The product has programmatic access to example models, to make it quick for the user to run an example model, or to alter the examples to their liking. | C |

> | API-5  | Input parameters have clear units to avoid confusion. E.g., using SI units only, or by providing usage of a python units package. | M |

Reviewer: Not sure this should be M.  We don't have it now, and I think it will take some effort.  Maybe should be C?
